`mw`
====

The Monier-Williams Sanskrit-English Dictionary.

The files in these folder fall into three types:


The dictionary itself
---------------------

The dictionary is an XML document, with toplevel element `<monier>`. Every
element in `monier` is a single definition and is, itself, a valid XML
document.

### `monier.xml`
The Monier-Williams Sanskrit-English dictionary, in its entirety.

### `mwtags.html`
A description of all of the tags used in `monier.xml`. If you have never worked
with `monier.xml` before, **start here**.

### `MWHeader.xml`
A [TEI](tei) header that describes who made these files and what restrictions
apply to them.

### `MWWorksAuthorsCurrentMarkup3.xml`
The dictionary cites various authors in support of its definitions. This
document lists those authors and the abbreviation that the dictionary uses for
them.


Greek data
----------

The dictionary uses a variety of Greek terms. In `monier.xml`, these are
written as `<gk>1</gk>`, `<gk>2</gk>`, and so on. These numbers are indices
into a separate list:

### `greeklist.csv`
The list of Greek terms.

The list is a CSV file with `L,betacode,index` for a header:

- `L` is the unique ID associated with the entry in the dictionary.
- `betacode` is the [Beta Code](betacode) of the original Greek. (Just as
  Sanskrit has Harvard-Kyoto and ITRANS, Greek has Betacode.)
- `index` is the corresponding index.

So if entry `4` contains `<gk>2</gk>`, `2` should be replaced by the
corresponding betacode (in this case, `A)N`).

In retrospect, `L,index,betacode` is a more intuitive order, but it's not
really worth changing.

### `greeklist.html`
The CSV above was generated by scraping this file.

### `bin/scrape_greeklist.py`
This is the tool used to scrape `greeklist.html`.

### `greekinfo.html`
A summary of how Greek terms are represented here and why they're represented
in this way.


Metadata
--------

### `corrections-factual.txt`
A summary of instances in which the MW dictionary itself is in error.

### `markingMonier.xml`
A summary of the project.

[betacode]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beta_Code
[tei]: http://tei-c.org
